If you&#39;ve ever wondered where all your money goes, and want a simple way to track income and expenses, BudgeIt is your solution. BudgeIt is a budgeting app for visual learners; by presenting your monthly cash flow in easy to read charts and graphs, BudgeIt makes it easy to know exactly where your money is going each month.

BudgeIt can be used by anyone who earns and spends. The app will also be beneficial for people who have bad spending habits.

BudgeIt gives users total customization in their budget. Users can create budget categories, and set a customizable time limit before each category resets. Each time a user makes a purchase, they enter it into BudgeIt and select which category it belongs to. Conversely, users can create savings categories, and set target goals for each category; users also select the amount of time these categories reset after . The goal of a budget category is to minimize money spent, whereas the goal of a savings category is to save at least a certain amount each month.  Each time the user gets paid, they enter it into BudgeIt and select which category it belongs to. This allows the user to ensure that their income matches, or exceeds, their target budgeting goals.

Users with predictable income sources or expenses can set up recurring income and/or payments. For example, with this feature, instead of the user entering the amount they paid for a phone bill each month, they can set up a recurring payment, once, and BudgeIt will automatically add it every month. Optionally, BudgeIt will also remind the user to pay their bills.

Throughout the month, users will be able to see each of their categories slowly &quot;budge&quot; towards the limit with a playful, colourful, and visually pleasing user interface. All of the user&#39;s categories are presented on the main page, so it is easy to track one&#39;s budgets and savings. Savings categories are presented in a positive colour, like green, while budget categories are presented in a more urgent colour, like red. All the budget categories will be visually represented in various forms. This includes pie charts and bar graphs, for the user&#39;s preferred period of time (as entered when creating a category). This will give the user a better sense of how they are spending their money. In addition to that, users will be able to compare their spending habits with nationwide statistics to give them an understanding of where they are on a nationwide scale in a financial context.

The primary goal of BudgeIt is to help people manage their money better. This will be measured by a decrease in irresponsible spending habits, an increased level of accuracy in predicting money spent in each category, and an increased amount of income put towards savings. These criteria will be measured by asking users, who have used the app for a significant amount of time, to fill out a questionnaire.
