# Retrospective #2 - BudgeIt

## What we would like to improve

Something that was not as successful as we would've liked, this iteration, was the implementation of categories. Categories are groups of entries that help track spending. The user should be able to create new categories, modify their name and goal, delete them, and assign new entries to categories. Both the logic and database layer implemented these functionalities, however, implementing the change in the UI proved to be a more difficult task then anticpated. As a result, some features had to be pushed to iteration 3. In the state the feature was in for iteration two's release, a user can create a category and assign it to an entry when creating a new entry. However, categories can not be deleted or modified. It is worth noting that assigning a category to an entry does not do anything particularly useful; nor do categories do anything of use currently. By assigning a category to an entry, it is simply attaching a category ID number to an entry object. In iteration 3 there are features that will make better use of this. For example, we have plans to allow the user to see all entries within a category, have the ability to modify and delete categories, and have the ability to create recurring income/expenses. We agreed that the reasons why categories were poorly done was time management, as well as not fully planning which features would go into this release.    

As a team, we agreed that to resolve these issues we should set more mini-deadlines for ourselves. This is so that work won't get pushed off as long, which will allow other members of the team to start tasks that depended on previous tasks. We were scrambling near the end, especially with the St Norbert power outage, so setting up deadlines to complete tasks __before__ the due date is crucial. Our goal is to be done everything the day before the iteration 3 deadline, so that handing it in on time won't be so stressful. We will know we have achieved this if we can hand in the project a day early. To execute this plan, we will be creating all issues on gitlab right away, and assigning them to each member of the team. This is probably something that should have been happening since day 1. At this point we have put most of the tasks on gitlab. 

In executing this plan, we hope to have a smooth iteration 3, implement all features in a timely manner, and handing in an app that we are proud of. This will be more difficult to achieve than the last iteration, however we are confident in our plan. 

